hello there my name is jay i'm one of
the expert toefl teachers here at
e2 language in today's class we're going
to look at an
interesting aspect of spoken speech
called
connected speech this is going to help
you to sound
more fluent in your toefl speaking test
but it's also going to help you with
your listening skills as well
because it's the aspect of speaking that
makes
listening difficult all right so do
stick around and watch this one
also in the description below there is a
hyperlink where you can download e2
language's
toefl ultimate guide all right let's get
started
so what is connected speech well in
order to understand what connected
speech
is let's do a very simple little repeat
the sentence activity
i'm going to say five sentences you just
need to
repeat the sentence after i say it ready
pick it up true or false
i must go don't you
get to it
all right that was pretty
straightforward right you probably
repeated all of those little phrases or
sentences
accurately now in each of those
phrases or sentences was a little piece
of connected speech
magic let's take a closer look at them
so there is a big difference between
written english and
spoken english when i write english i
write
pick it up but when i speak it
i don't say pick it up i say pi ki
or when i write true or false i write
true or
false but when i say true or false i say
true
war false true war false
when i write i must go i write it just
like that in
c but when i say it i say i must go
i must go i do not say i must go.
when i write don't you i write it like
don't you but i never
say don't you i say don't you
don't you and for e get to
it i never say that i say get to it get
to it get to it
so what's going on here let's take a
closer look
at these rules so there are five aspects
of connected speech
a there's linking where i don't say pick
it up i say
pikitap adding where i add the
what sound deleting where i say i must
go not i must go what's going on there
and changing don't chew don't you don't
you don't chew
and also combine and get to it
crazy crazy stuff this
is the reason why listening to english
is so
difficult because you're probably used
to reading english and
seeing the words written in their proper
form if you like
but then all of a sudden when they're
spoken and especially if they're spoken
at a
normal pace which does sound quite rapid
they're
undergoing all these changes so the
spoken and the listening is
far different than the reading and the
writing
crazy stuff let's take a closer look at
each of these rules
so let's look at the linking rule first
and there is a rule here
the rule is this if we have a word
ending in
a consonant a consonant is a
sound that you make a phoneme a sound of
english like
[Music]
whatever there are lots in english these
are sounds that you make where you're
using an
aspect of your mouth your lips your
tongue the roof of your mouth your teeth
to make a specific sound this is
contrasted
with a vowel sound
where i'm not using a part of my mouth
to make that sound
okay so let's look at the rule here so
if a
word ends in a consonant sound
and the next word starts with a vowel
we've got a little rule here take a look
at
these two very common words we have this
which ends in a consonant and we have
ears
which starts with a vowel so we never
say
this is we say this
is this is a link
this is this is
for example we don't say this
is a picture of my new grandson we say
this
is a picture of my new grandson
listen as i say this at a normal spoken
rate this is a picture of my new
grandson
this is a picture of my new grandson if
you were to
slow me down i would actually say
this is a picture of
my new grandson hmm that is an example
of a link
or number of links in a single sentence
okay your turn i want you to say these
three simple sentences and say them
rapidly
and note the links that you make
ready number one my name is dave say it
properly
i live in india say it properly
when is it say it properly
by properly i mean my name is dave
my name is dave i live in india i live
in
india i live in india where near zit
when is it when is it when is it
these are all examples of links let's
look at the next
rule of connected speech magical stuff
hey
so sometimes we don't link sometimes
what we do is
add a sound that is definitely
not in the spelling like
true war false okay so if we have a word
ending in an or no sound
and the next word starts with a vowel we
add this little
sound now i'm teaching these rules
explicitly okay i don't want you to
stress i don't want you to even
try to remember them all that's
happening here is i'm telling you what
actually happens when a native or
near native speaker of english speaks at
a normal rate of speech
okay all of this stuff just magically
starts to happen
you probably do this already because it
sort of happens
automatically it's just the nature of
the two sounds that come together will
form this little
w sound for example so don't stress i
don't want you to remember it
just raise your awareness of it it will
also help your listening skills
let's take a closer look at this one so
here we have
a word ending in an u sound
and the next word starts with an
i sound a vowel so we don't say blue
eyes
we say blue wise blue eyes blue
y's what gets added
your turn take a look at these three
sentences
quickly say them and notice how we're
adding
an additional what sounds go
so if you said them at a normal spoken
rate
you would say she has blue wise how
are you how are you how are you
throw it to me throw wit to me
she has blue eyes how are you throw it
to me
there are in fact other
words or other rules we add an
additional sound there's one
we add a r sound for example that does
not exist in the spelling or in the
written
text however we'll teach you that to you
in
another lesson in fact you might want to
subscribe to this channel because in a
few weeks we're going to
launch a monster pronunciation
video which is really going to help you
i think it's like an hour and a half
it's me and another expert teacher amber
and we go through all of these rules
in depth so if you don't want to miss
that particular video lesson that's
coming up soon
make sure you hit that subscribe button
okay let's go to the next rule
okay rule c is pretty easy it's a
deletion so we delete a particular sound
when particular sounds come together
okay
so if you have a t sound or a
d sound or a h sound
we often just delete these
i don't say it must be
i say it must be it must be
it must be i don't say you
and me i say you and me
you and me you and me there's no sound
there there's no
d sound there no d sound
i don't say i saw him i say
i saw him i saw him in fact that's kind
of weird because it almost sounds like a
root sound i saw rem
i saw rem anyway again more weird stuff
with connected speech
that rule is pretty straightforward okay
so the next rule
d is where we change a sound all
together
this one is very strange
and again it's really important to
understand this one
especially in well not necessarily even
informal situations but just with very
common phrases they differ significantly
from how they're written
when they're spoken let's take a closer
look at this rule
so if we have a word that ends in a t
sound and the next word starts with a y
sound we add we transform the sound into
a ch
sound what the hell let's take a close
closer look here
what and you said that word ends in a t
sound the next word starts with a y
sound
i do not say what you
i say what's you what you watch you
for example have you decided what you
want this is not how we speak at all
what we really say is have you decided
what you want
have you decided what you want what you
what you what you want
here's another one if a word ends in a d
sound and the next word starts with a
yet sound we add this
j sound what for example
did you we never say
did you sounds like a robot
what we say is did you did you did you
for example here's a guy saying well
this guy sounds like a robot
did you know there's a sale on
no no no no we say did you did you know
there's a sale on
did you know there's a sale on okay
we've covered
four of the rules so far and we're
realizing that there's quite a little
bit of quite a little bit there's quite
a bit of
magic in spoken english let's go to the
final
rule here this is where we
combine sounds together
okay it's a bit similar to deleting but
we keep
one of them so let's take a closer look
so if a word
ends in a consonant and the next word
starts with the
same consonant for example
hot tea we have the t
we don't say hot tea what we say is hot
tea
hot tea hot hot hot tea
for example this is wrong we do not say
here's some hot
tea hot tea we say here's some hot tea
and we delete
or we combine rather those two
t sounds into a single t sound
okay take a look at this example here we
have two
similar sounds very similar here we have
a t
sound they're almost identical
now the same thing happens we're going
to have to combine them or get rid of
one of the sounds and just keep that
second d sound so hot dog
sounds unnatural what we would usually
say or what we
always say in spoken speeches one hot
dog
do you want a hot dog hot dog hot
dog there's no t sound there at all
so take a look at this paragraph here
doctors are giving new advice for
people with coughs they are advising i
won't read at all
but you can tell by the way that i'm
reading it that it is very
unnatural and if i were to say this
paragraph it would transform
significantly with all of those
connected speech rules that we looked at
before
let me read this out and i'm going to
purposely exaggerate all of these
connected speech rules
it's kind of like i'm speaking but
imagine you're slowing me down
so you're hearing all of the rules of
linking and deleting
and transforming changing combining etc
okay
have a listen to this dr
[Music]
there's a link giving new advice
advice for people with coughs they
are revising they are advising they
are advising revising people
not to not to there's your hot dog not
to
visit visitor visit
a doctor to get treat get got two t
sounds so we delete one get treatment
get treatment
delete the first one in fact instead
if you have a have
cough what you need to
do whiz drink corrite
honey or get medicine from ma
pharmacy did you know that honey has
antibacterial properties
okay let me read it through properly
just so you can get a feel for how
at a normal spoken rate this all sounds
okay
let me go back to the way it's written
pay attention to the way it's written
and the way that i actually say it
doctors are giving new advice for people
with coughs
they're advising people not to visit a
doctor to get treatment
instead if you have a cough what you
need to do is drink or eat honey
or get medicine from a pharmacy did you
know that honey has antibacterial
properties
and again when the speaking takes place
all of these magical rules of connected
speech
happen so let's summarize these five
connected speech
rules let's take a look a pick it up
is a linking rule pick it up
true or false is an adding rule true or
false
i must go is a deleting rule don't chew
is like a magical transformation rule
and get
to it is a combining rule again
this is the difference between written
english and spoken english
cool if you enjoyed that if you thought
wow that was incredible i learned a lot
about spoken speech or i need to learn
more about the tests that i'm
taking then make sure you hit that
subscribe button
but more importantly check out
e2language.com
because that's where really all of the
magic happens
youtube's fine we often release videos
here some of the videos are here
all of our good methods lessons and
instructional videos are
on the platform at e2language.com my
name is jay
i will see you soon